# Django Set Up 
The article focuses on the initial steps you'll need to start a new web app.

### By the end, you'll know how to:
- Setting up a virtual environment
- Installing Django
- Setting up a Django project
- Starting Django app

## Prepare Your Environment
When you're ready to start a Django web app, create a new directory(folder) and navigate into it, and set your virtual environment using the command line:

- **will create and activate your virtual environment**
```
    pipenv shell   
``` 

If you looked into the directory you will find a file called ```Pipfile``` this file contain all the details about your virtual environments like >> Python version and packages.

## Install Django and its Dependencies
Once you've created and activated your virtual environment, now you can install Django:
- **will install Django and register all the dependencies to Pipfile**
```
    pipenv install django
```

## Set up a Django Project
After you've successfully installed Django, you're ready to create the web app. the Django framework distinguishes between projects and apps:
- **A Django project** is a high unit of organization that contains logic that governs your whole web app. And each project contains multiple apps.
- **A Django app** is a lower-level unit of the web app. You can have any many as you want apps in a project, and you'll usually have at least one app.

With your virtual environment set up and activated and Django installed. Now you can create a project:
- **Will create a Django project**
```
    django-admin startproject <project-name>
```
As an example for the project name it:
```
    django-admin startprojec todo_list
```
Running this command creates a directory, which includes some Python files and your management app that has the same name as your project:
```
    todo_list
    ├── manage.py
    └── todo_list
        ├── asgi.py
        ├── __init__.py
        ├── settings.py
        ├── urls.py
        └── wsgi.py
```
- **todo_list/** is your top-level project folder.
- **todo_list/todo_list/** is your lower-level folder that represents your management app.
- **manage.py** is a Python file that serves as the command center of your projects. it does the same as the ```django-admin``` command-line.
The nested ```todo_list/todo_list``` contains files that you'll edit when you start working on the project.

## Start a Django app
Every Django project can contain multiple apps. when you run the ```startproject`` command in the previous section, you created a management app that you'll need for every project. Now, you'll create a Django app that contains specific functionalities of your web app.

You don't have to use ```django-admin``` command-line anymore, and you can ```startapp``` command through the ```manage.py``` file instead:
- **Will create a Django app**
```
    python manage.py startapp <app-name>
```
As an example for the app name:
```
    python manage.py startapp core
```
Running this command will create a new directory, which contains your app functionalities:
```
    ├── core
    │   ├── admin.py
    │   ├── apps.py
    │   ├── __init__.py
    │   ├── migrations
    │   │   └── __init__.py
    │   ├── models.py
    │   ├── tests.py
    │   └── views.py
    ├── manage.py
    └── todo_list
        ├── asgi.py
        ├── __init__.py
        ├── settings.py
        ├── urls.py
        └── wsgi.py
```
The new directory has the name ```core``` we gave it when running the command, those files generated by the Django framework for us to work on our app functionalities.
Here are some notable files that were created in the app directory:
- **__init__.py**: Python uses these files to declare a directory as a package.
- **models.py**: You'll declare your app's models in this file which allows Django to interface with the database of your web app.
- **views.py**: You'll write the code logic of your app in this file.


At this point, you've finished setting up your Django web app. Now you can start implementing your ideas/features.

**Read more on** : [sudoer-zero](https://sudoer-zero.tk)